we have all heard at least
once that you should not drink alcohol
during pregnancy and that doing so can be
harmful to the baby we have
also all heard that a glass of
whatever wine you want it to be and a beer a
day helps to make the milk come,
in short the  beliefs about alcohol during
pregnancy are as many as the
reasons why alcohol during
pregnancy should be avoided
completely So here are all
the reasons why you shouldn't drink alcohol
during pregnancy I'll explain it to you
When a woman is pregnant everything she
needs  to develop,
grow, breathe and nourish the fetus passes
through the placenta and the
umbilical cord. This means that the air
that the mother breathes, the foods that the mother
eats and the liquids that the mother drinks
are all shared with the fetus, the
placenta also functions as a
defensive barrier  for the fetus and keeps out
most of the things that could
harm it, allowing
only good things to reach it. But there is one thing that
the placental barrier is
absolutely unable to stop and that
reaches the fetus without filtering the alcohol.
This means  that all alcohol
consumed by the mother is
100% shared with the unborn child.
in adults alcohol is metabolised
by the liver which eliminates
its toxic products from the body but in an embryo
or fetus the liver is not yet
fully developed and is therefore not
able to metabolise the alcohol which
therefore remains in the amniotic fluid  for
a long time this causes
very serious consequences right from the first days of
pregnancy in which the intake of alcohol
can even determine the blocking of the
development of the embryo and consequent
spontaneous abortion. But it doesn't end there If
the mother drinks alcohol during the rest
of the pregnancy In fact the  fetus
could develop a whole series of
physical or neurological disorders which
are included within the
so-called Fast which stands for fittal
alcohol Spectrum
disorders in children with
Fast. Low birth weight may occur,
malformations of the eyes, hands,
ears or  of internal organs and
neurobehavioral disorders that
cause problems in the spheres of
language, attention,
mood regulation and
impulse control. These
neurobehavioral disorders can lead to
serious maladjustments in the lives of
people with Fast, causing, for example,
family and social problems,
but also possible  mental health problems
such as depression, anxiety,
addictive behaviors or
eating disorders, the consumption of
any alcoholic drink during pregnancy
always harms the fetus without differences in
strength or quantity and habits, even
worse is getting drunk once in a
while by drinking for example 6 or 7
cocktail summing up during
pregnancy the only quantity of alcohol that
can be considered safe or
risk-free for the fetus is zero
if you are looking for information on the syndrome
of alcohol disorders call the
alcohol hotline of the
Higher Institute of Health on 800
632200 telephone  green alcohol is a
national,
anonymous and free telephone counseling service active from
Monday to Friday from 10am to
4pm the green alcohol phone is a
listening point for all people who have
problems related to alcohol consumption and
for their family members who  will be able to give you
information on the effects of
alcohol consumption on health and
point you to the public territorial structures
and
voluntary associations that deal with the
treatment of alcohol-related addictions.
This project was carried out with
the technical and financial support of the
Ministry of Health  Thanks to everyone and good luck to the
iguana